The Project Gutenberg eBook of Beyond the wall, by Henry Leverage

This eBook is for the use of anyone anywhere in the United States and
most other parts of the world at no cost and with almost no restrictions
whatsoever. You may copy it, give it away or re-use it under the terms
of the Project Gutenberg License included with this eBook or online at
www.gutenberg.org. If you are not located in the United States, you
will have to check the laws of the country where you are located before
using this eBook.

Title: Beyond the wall

Author: Henry Leverage

Release Date: September 6, 2022 [eBook #68930]

Language: English

Produced by: Roger Frank and Sue Clark

*** START OF THE PROJECT GUTENBERG EBOOK BEYOND THE WALL ***




Beyond the Wall

by Henry Leverage


	The first of a remarkable series of underworld stories by the
	author of “Thirst” and “The Harvest of the Deep.” Few other
	writers have Mr. Leverage’s keen sense of drama and ability to
	describe swift action clearly.


Chester Fay, a slender, keen-eyed, gray-haired young man,--clad in
prison shoddy, serving life and fifteen years at Rockglen,--glanced
through the rain and over the wall to where a green-cloaked hill
loomed. “Charley,” he whispered, “we might as well try it this
afternoon. Are you game?” Charley O’Mara, sixty-five years old, bent,
broken, and bitter at the law, coughed a warning. He raised his pick
and started digging around a flower-bed.

A guard in a heavy raincoat, carrying a dripping rifle, came toward
the two prisoners. He stopped a few feet away from Fay.

“Quit that talkin’!” he snarled. “I’ll chalk you in if I see any more
of it!”

Fay did not answer the guard. He spaded the earth, dug deep, tossed
the shovelfuls to one side and waited until the guard had strolled
within the shelter of a low shed.

“Charley!” he continued without moving his lips. “Listen, old pal.
See that motortruck near the shed?”

“I see it, Chester.”

“See where the screw is standing?”

“He’s watching us.”

“And I’m watching him, Charley. We can beat this stir in an hour. Do
you want to try it?”

“How you going to do it?”

“Will you follow me?”

“Yes, pal.”

“Wait till it gets a little darker. Then we’ll take the chance.”

The prison guard stood with his rifle lowered to the moist earth
beneath the shed. His eyes ranged from the two convicts to the wall
upon which were other guards sheltered in tiny guardhouses. He yawned
and drowsed, standing.

Fay worked in a slow circle. He had seen the auto-truck come into the
prison yard at noon. It was part of the road-gang’s outfit. There was
no road-work that day, on account of the rain. The inmate driver had
gone into the cellhouse.

Old Charley O’Mara let his pick dig into the earth with feeble
strokes. He paused at times. There was that to Fay’s actions which
presaged much. The gray-haired young man was gradually closing in on
the drowsing guard. He was like a lean panther getting ready for a
spring.

                *       *       *       *       *

The attack came with lightninglike suddenness. Fay dropped his
shovel, crossed the earth, struck the guard a short-arm uppercut and
bore him down to earth, where he smothered his cries with a flap of
the raincoat.

Charley O’Mara came limping toward the shed.

“Get a rope!” snapped Fay. “I don’t want to croak him.”

“Croakin’s too good for the likes of him, Chester.”

“Get a rope. We’ve got about fifteen minutes to work in. We ought to
be beyond the wall by then.”

Fay worked quickly. He took the rope the old convict found, and
trussed the guard, after taking off the raincoat. He made sure that
the man would make no outcry. He fastened a stick in his mouth and
tied it behind his head. He rose and glanced through the down-pouring
rain.

“I knocked him out,” he said. “Now, Charley, put on that raincoat,
take the cap and rifle and walk slowly toward the auto-truck. Get in
the front. Stand up like a guard.”

“But they might know me!”

“They wont know you. It’s raining. The screws on the wall will think
you are taking the truck out, by order of the warden. I’ll drive. An
inmate always drives.”

The guard who sat huddled in the little house which loomed over the
great gate at Rockglen rose, opened a small window and glanced out as
he heard the motortruck mounting the grade from the prison yard. He
saw what he thought was the figure of a guard standing by a convict.
The convict crouched with partly hidden face over the steering-wheel.

“All right!” shouted Charley O’Mara, motioning with his rifle toward
the closed gate.

The guard squinted for a second time. He caught, through the rain,
the gleam of brass on the cap Charley wore. He saw the rifle. He
reached and pulled at a lever. The gate slowly opened, first to a
crack, then wide. Fay pressed forward the clutch pedal, shifted from
neutral to first speed, stepped on the accelerator and let the clutch
pedal up gently.

The truck mounted the top of the grade, churned through the gate,
turned in front of the warden’s house and took the incline which led
over the hill from Rockglen.

                *       *       *       *       *

All might have gone well for the convicts had it not been for the
rain. Water had formed in deep pools along the road. Into these pools
Fay guided the clumsy truck. He heard the engine miss an explosion. A
sputter followed. The truck slowed. An explosion sounded in the
muffler. The insulation wires grounded and short-circuited. The truck
stopped.

Fay sprang from the driver’s seat and opened the hood. He attempted
to find the trouble. A dangling wire, touching the engine’s frame,
was sodden with water.

“No go!” he said to Charley. “Come on! We’ll leave the truck and take
to the woods. That means a chase as soon as the big whistle blows.”

The two convicts were crossing an open field when they heard the
first menacing blasts from the prison siren. They ran for shelter. A
dog barked. A farmhand came through the underbrush. He stood
watching.

“Keep your nerve!” said Fay. “You’ve got the rifle. Night is coming
on. Follow me.”

The trail led away from Rockglen. Fay sensed the general direction.
He attempted to gain a railroad junction where a freight could be
taken for Chicago. He was headed off by a motorcar load of prison
guards. He saw the danger in time.

“To the right,” he whispered to O’Mara. “Follow me. Don’t cave, pal.”

“I’m all in,” sobbed the old convict.

Fay braced his arm beneath Charlie’s elbow. He took the rifle. They
crossed a swollen brook, broke through the hedge of a vast estate and
came suddenly upon a trio of watchmen who had been alarmed by the
blowing of the prison’s siren.

The fight that followed was entirely onesided. Fay pumped lead in the
general direction of the watchmen. He was answered by a salvo.
Crimson cones splashed the night. Bullets whined. A shout sounded far
away. Other watchmen and constables were surrounding the estate.

Old Charley O’Mara, crouching in the shelter of a hawthorn clump,
coughed, rose, spun and fell face downward. A great spot of scarlet
ran over the raincoat. His aged face twisted in agony. Fay knelt by
his side.

“I’m croaked, pal,” said the convict. “They winged me through the
lungs. Good-by, pal.”

“Anything I can do, Charley?”

“Do you think you’ll get away?”

“I know I will.”

“To Chi?”

“Yes!”

“Will you go see my little girl?”

“Where is she?”

“At the Dropper’s, on Harrison Street. She’s in bad, Chester. Take
her away from them low-brows.”

“How old is she?”

“Sixteen.”

“What is her name?”

“Emily--little Emily.”

“I’ll take care of her, Charley. I promise you that!”

                *       *       *       *       *

Fay let the convict’s head drop to the ground. He heard the
death-rattle. He kicked aside the empty and useless rifle.

The way of escape was not an easy one. Forms moved in the mist. He
darted for a row of bushes. He crawled beneath them. He gained the
high fence around the estate, where, freed of the necessity of
setting his pace to that of the old convict, he broke through the
far-flung cordon of guards and watchmen and gained a woods which
extended north and west for over a score of miles.

He discovered, toward morning, a small house in course of erection.
Its scaffolding stood gaunt against the velvet of the sky. A
carpenter’s chest rested on the back porch.

Fay pried this open with a hatchet, removed a suit of overalls and a
saw, and dropped the lid. He emerged from the woods, looking for all
the world like a carpenter going to work.

To the man who had wolfed the world--to the third cracksman then
living--the remainder of his get-away to Chicago was a journey wherein
each detail fitted in with the others.

He arrived--after riding in gondola-cars, hugging the tops of Pullmans
and helping stoke an Atlantic type locomotive--at the first fringe of
the city of many millions.

With sharp eyes before him, and dodging police-haunted streets, he
mingled with the workers--seemingly a carpenter.

No one of all the throng seemed to notice him. He walked slowly at
times. He thought of old Charley O’Mara, and of the dying convict’s
request.

A speck in the yeast, a chip on the foam, he quickened his steps and
entered a small pawnshop where money could be borrowed for
enterprises of a shady nature.

                *       *       *       *       *

Mother Madlebaum peered over the counter at the gray-haired young man
who held out an empty palm and asked for a loan on a mythical watch.
She removed her spectacles, polished them with her black alpaca
apron, and glanced shrewdly toward the door.

“What a start you gave me, Chester. And me thinking all along you
were lagged.”

“Five C’s on the block,” laughed Fay pleasantly. “Remember the
blue-white gems I brought you last time? Remember the swag, loot and
plunder from the Hanover job? You made big on them.”

“I always do with your stuff, Chester.”

“Can you lend me five hundred? I’ve just beaten stir.”

The old fence opened her safe and brought forth a money-drawer. Fay
took the bills she handed to him, without counting them. He touched
his hat and started toward the door.

“Wait, Chester.”

“What is it?”

“Want to plant upstairs till the blow is over?”

“No. I promised old Charley O’Mara I’d see his girl for him. Poor
Charley is dead.”

“He wasn’t in your class, Chester. Nobody is.”

“Where’s the Dropper’s scatter?”

“Five doors from the corner, on Harrison Street. Is the girl there?”

“Yes.”

“Then may God help her. You can’t!”

Fay passed from the fence and lost himself in the clothing-department
of a dry-goods store. He entered the place a carpenter--down in the
heels and somewhat grimy from his train-ride. He emerged with a
bamboo cane hooked over the sleeve of a shepherd-plaid suit. His hat
was a flat-brimmed Panama, his shoes correct.

A bath, shave, shampoo and haircut completed his metamorphosis. He
left a barber-shop--the proper figure of a young man. He walked
briskly, seeing everything.

                *       *       *       *       *

There were detectives in that city--discerning ones. He avoided the
main streets and crossings. Wolf-keen and alert for the police, he
turned toward the dive where little Emily O’Mara lived. He distrusted
the place and cursed himself for the venture.

The Dropper’s reputation among the powers that preyed was--unsavory.
There had been rumors in the old days that he was a pigeon. The den
and joint he managed sheltered cheap dips, pennyweighters and
store-histers who bragged of their miserable exploits.

Fay entered the hallway that led up to the Dropper’s, like a duke
paying a visit to a tenement.

A gas-light flared the second landing. An ash-can, half filled with
empty bottles, marked the third. Fay paused by this can, studied a
fist-banged door, then knocked with light knuckles.

As he waited for a chain to be unhooked and a slide to open, he
sniffed the air of the hallway. Somewhere, some one was smoking
opium.

A brutish, shelving-browed, scar-crossed face appeared at the
opening. Steely eyes drilled toward the cracksman.

“What d’ye want here?”

“Gee sip en quessen, hop en yen?”

“Who to hell are yuh?”

“A friend,” said Fay. “A man to see Charley O’Mara’s daughter.”

Fay carried no revolver. He scorned such things. The police rated him
too clever to commit murder. Only amateurs and coke-fiends did things
like that.

He wished, however, that he could thrust the blued-steel muzzle of a
gat through the panel and order the Dropper to unlatch the door. The
thug was so long in making up his none-too-alert mind.

It swung finally. Fay stepped into the room. He narrowed his eyes and
mentally photographed a mean den, made translucent by the
greenish-hued smoke that swirled over a peanut-oil lamp and floated
before the drawn faces of many poppy-dreamers who were peering from
bunks.

The Dropper stood waiting. His elbows were slightly bent. His huge,
broken-boned hands came slowly in front. He measured Fay from the tip
of the shoes to the prematurely gray hair that showed beneath the
cracksman’s straw hat.

“Well, when did you get out of stir?” he snarled with sudden
recognition. “I thought they threw the key away on yuh.”

“Easy, Dropper! Who are all these people?”

“Aw, they’re all right! There’s Canada Mac and Glycerine Jimmy an’
three broads over there. Then there’s Mike the Bike and Micky Gleason
with us to-night. Know them?”

Fay unhooked his cane from his arm. He swung it back and forth as he
studied the faces in the bunks. His stare dropped to the peanut-oil
lamp and the lay-out tray around which reclined two smokers. He saw a
piglike dog crouching by a screen. Behind this was the entrance to
another room.

“Suppose we go in there,” he said. “There’s something I want to speak
to you about, Dropper.”

“Spit it out, here!”

“No!” Fay’s voice took on a metallic incisiveness. He flashed a
warning at the Dropper. The big man shifted his eyes uneasily, and
followed Fay around the screen and into a room where two
chintz-covered windows looked out into Harrison Street. There were a
poker-table, a couch and many chairs in the room. The floor was
covered with a cheap matting.

“Listen,” said Fay, still swinging his cane: “I came here to see
Charley O’Mara’s daughter. I want to see her quick! I can’t stay
around here. It’s no place--”

“Aw, cut that kid-glove stuff. What d’ye think we are--stools?”

“I want to see Charley’s daughter--Emily!”

“You can’t!”

“What have you done with her?”

“I aint done nothin’. She lives right here.”

Fay hung his cane on a chair, removed his hat, turned, backed against
the poker-table and fastened upon the Dropper a glance of white fire.

“Tell that girl to come to me.”

“Well, who the hell are you orderin’ around?”

“Go! Get--that--girl!”

The Dropper was in his own castle. The bunks in the den were filled
with the reclining forms of a number of men who would commit murder
at his bidding. He had, safely planted, the only hundred toys of
choice Victoria hop in all of Chicago. One could buy most anything,
from virtue to a man’s soul, with opium at the current prices.

He considered the matter of Fay with a slow brain. Back in the heart
of him there lurked a fear for a five-figure man. They did big
things. They were supercrooks. Their weight might be felt through
political influence.

“I’m hep!” he said sullenly. “You want to cop the skirt from me. You
want to tell her about diamonds and rubies and strings of pearls--of
swag and kale and the easy life swillin’ wine.”

“I don’t want to do anything of the kind. I’ve got a message for her
from her old man. He’s not well,” Fay added cautiously, remembering
that under the law the Dropper might be considered Emily’s guardian.

“So he aint goin’ to get sprung? I heard he had a swell mouthpiece
who was workin’ with the pollies.”

“The appeal was denied last week. The governor turned it down--cold.
Charley may have to serve his full term.”

“Oh, well, if that’s the straight of it-- I’ll get the moll an’
let you chin with her a bit. Remember, no fancy stuff.”

Fay stared at the dive-keeper disgustedly. The Dropper weighed over
two hundred and fifty pounds. He moved his gross form across the
matting, paused at the screen where the piglike dog lay, and lumbered
out of sight. His voice rasped in a shout: “Emily!”

                *       *       *       *       *

Her entrance came a minute after Fay had seated himself at the
poker-table. His hand rested on his hat. He heard the Dropper’s
nagging oaths.

Emily entered, propelled by a strong arm.

Fay rose. He flashed an assuring glance. He reached and offered her a
chair.

The picture she left with him, as he turned for the chair, was one he
could never forget.

Golden-glossed hair, fine-spun as flax, an oval face, big
sherry-colored eyes, long lashes, a round breast and straight
figure--was his summing up of little Emily O’Mara.

The Dropper lunged for the girl. He lifted her chin. He leered as she
cringed from him.

“This guy wants to see you, kid!”

Fay pressed the sides of his trousers with the sensitive tips of his
fingers. He waited, with his teeth grinding. He wanted to leap the
distance, reach, clutch and throttle the purple neck of the brute.

The Dropper swung a terrible jaw and eyed Fay.

“Go to it!” he rumbled. “Get done with the kid, damn quick. Tell her
she’ll never see her old man again. That’s wot I’ve been tellin’
her--all the time.”

Fay waited until the Dropper disappeared. He moved the chair he had
offered to the girl, so that she could see it.

“Wont you sit down, Emily? I left your dad last night. He wasn’t
well.”

A flash of interest and gratitude crossed her features. She clutched
her skirt, stared at the door, bent one knee and sank into the chair
timidly.

Fay leaned and whispered:

“Your father sent me to you. He wants you to leave this bunch. He’s
afraid you are not being well treated. He thinks you ought to go to
some good home,” he added as he realized the girl’s underworld
upbringing.

“Is Father coming back to me?”

“No, never.”

“Why not?”

The naivete of the question struck Fay as an indictment against
society.

“Because the laws are unjust!” he declared. “They keep a man in
prison after he is reformed. They don’t keep a man in a hospital
after he is cured.”

“Did you escape from Rockglen?”

“Would it make any difference to you if I had broken out of prison?”

“No, it wouldn’t make any difference to me--but I don’t know what you
mean.”

“I mean I want you to go away with me. I want to get you out of this
den of petty-larceny addicts and low-brows. That’s what your father
wanted, Emily.”

“But I don’t even know your name. Why should I run away with you?”

“Because the Dropper is a brute. Because he will beat you--if he
hasn’t already. Because the life here leads to the gutter--and mighty
fast you’ll drift down to it, little Emily.”

                *       *       *       *       *

The girl arranged a black velvet bandeau on her hair. Fay noticed
that the rings on her fingers were brassy and childish. They grated
on a man who had never handled any but first-water jewels.

He leaned forward and suggested:

“Come with me--say, to-morrow night. We’ll go East together. I know a
motherly woman who has an old mansion on the Hudson.”

Little Emily fluttered her lashes in an anxious glance at the open
door, beyond which was the sound of dreamy voices.

“I’m afraid I can’t.”

“Why?”

“He wont let me.”

“What is he to you?”

“Nothing, but I’m afraid of him. He’s so strong.”

“He’s a big mush, little Emily--a woman-beater, a peddler of opium--a
Fink, if you know what that means.”

The girl pulled her dress down to the tops of her broken shoes. She
twisted, glanced up, smiled faintly, and blanched as the Dropper
thrust his head into the room.

“What are you tryin’ to pull off?” he asked.

Fay stared over the girl’s cringing shoulder. His steel-blue eyes
locked with the brute’s. They burned and blazed into a sodden brain.
The Dropper leered, said, “Oh, all right, cul,” and went back to the
smokers around the lay-out tray.

“Quick, Emily! Make up your mind. Can I come for you to-morrow night?
I owe it to your old man. We’ll go East, and this woman I know will
take care of you. I hate the coppers, and I’m out to collect from the
world. They sent me away to Rockglen--dead, bang wrong! They gave me
life and fifteen years. I didn’t serve fifteen weeks!”

Fay ceased pleading. He watched the girl. There was a mark behind her
left ear which could only have come from a blow. She fingered a black
velvet bandeau. She clenched her hands. She started to rise. Suddenly
she dropped to the chair.

“I can’t go--even if Dad wants me to. I can’t leave the Dropper. I am
afraid he’ll kill me if I go away with you.”

“He’s got you cowed!”

“I can’t help it.”

“And you slave for him--work for him--touch his hand when he calls for
you?”

“I do. You don’t understand my position.”

“It’s an outrage. Poor Charley O’Mara’s daughter held in the clutches
of that beast!”

“He is going to kill me some day. I saw him kill a man once. He hit
him with his fist. They carried the man to the river.”

“Suppose I come here to-morrow night with a gat, stick up the joint,
make the Dropper whine like a cur. What would you do?”

“He wouldn’t whine. He’d kill you--the way he killed that man who
didn’t pay him for a card of hop.”

Fay caught the underworld note.

“Do you smoke?” His voice was suspicious.

“No, I don’t smoke opium. I watch other people do that.”

“You’re too sensible. Does the Dropper smoke?”

“He don’t smoke, either. He sells the stuff.”

                *       *       *       *       *

The girl’s naïveté brought a smile to Fay’s lips.

“You’re going East,” he said. “I’ll make the money for your
education. I’ve got two big jobs located. One is in Maiden Lane.”

“Diamonds?”

“Yes, gems. What do you say, little Emily?”

“I--I am afraid.”

“But think what a beautiful world this is. There is London and Paris
and Rome.”

“London and Paris and Rome mean nothing to me. I wouldn’t know how to
behave in those places. All I’ve known is Harrison Street, and the
back rooms of saloons, and getting beat up.”

“But your dad was a high-roller.”

“He wasn’t always. Sometimes he was broke. Sometimes we didn’t know
where we were going to get things to eat.”

Fay’s voice grew tender.

“Emily,” he said, “that’s all a bad dream. Yesterday afternoon I made
a get-away. A man who was dying--a mark for the prison screws--told me
to go and save his daughter. I don’t want you to think I forgot that
request. I could never forget it. Charley was a pal o’ mine. I came
right to you. I see the lay-out. You’re cowed, beaten, crushed, by
the Dropper. I’ll croak him when you ask me to.”

“You can’t! I want you to go away. Please don’t suggest anything like
that. I like you, but I can never run away with you. I’m afraid.”

“Good God, do you want me to leave you in this joint?”

“It’s the only life I’ve ever known.”

“Where do you sleep?”

“On a cot upstairs.”

“And you ought to have a palace. Did you ever look at yourself in the
glass?”

“Sometimes, after he beats me.”

Fay started toward the door. He heard a chair upset. Little Emily
dragged on his arm.

“Don’t go to him! He’ll kill you.”

“Then you come with me.”

“I’m afraid to.”

The girl spoke the truth. Her color was ashen.

Fay went to the table, lifted her chair, turned it and motioned for
her to sit down. She hesitated between the table and door.

“Please,” said Fay.

He might have been addressing a princess. Her color returned in
rippling waves. She tried to smile. Her lips trembled--she took one
step in his direction, swayed, and pressed her fists to her breast.

The Dropper’s form completely filled the doorway.

“Come here!” he snarled.

“Hold on!” snapped Fay.

“Come ’ere, yuh!”

The girl between the two men, made her choice, or rather, had it made
for her.

Shrinkingly demure, and altogether tearful, she pressed by the
Dropper and glided across the den where the poppy-smokers lay.

“Go to bed!”

Fay saw the brute’s chin move in a slow circle over his shelving
shoulder. He swung back his jaw.

“You’re next,” he said. “Better beat it, bo. I’ll tame yuh like I’ve
tamed her.”

“Tamed is good.” Fay picked up his hat. He hooked the cane over his
left sleeve. “Rather pleasant evening, Dropper.... I see you
understand women.”

“I guess I do. Yuh want to let ’em know you’re the biggest guy alive.
I’m that guy. Nobody ever took a broad away from me.”

“But she’s only a kid, Dropper.”

“Another year--”

“Yes, you’re right. Well, so long. There’ll be another night, too.
I’m coming back.”

“I’ll be ready for yuh!”

                *       *       *       *       *

Fay had no set plan as he left the scatter of Mike Cregan--alias the
Dropper. He wanted to thrash out the matter of Emily O’Mara in his
mind. Her behavior, and the fear she held of her unsavory guardian,
puzzled the cracksman.

He had accomplished much in a brief time. There were not many men
living who could have broken out of Rockglen on one afternoon and
strolled down Michigan Avenue the next. It was an exploit in keeping
with his reputation.

Midnight found him working over the problem of the girl. He recalled
old Charley’s last instructions:

“Get her away from the low-brows.”

A promise, Fay had never intentionally broken. There was the
girl--naive, doll-like, docile. There was the Dropper--demanding,
brutish, a fink.

Fay slept that night at a stag hotel.

He woke early, bathed beneath a shower, dressed and went down to
breakfast.

On Harrison Street he gulped the air. He avoided being seen by the
detectives of the city. Once he took a cab for a distance of five
squares. He dismissed the driver at the side entrance of a cheap
hotel--sauntered through the lobby and emerged with a sharp glance to
left and right.

The game gripped him as he dodged into the tenement and started
climbing the gas-flared stairways to the hop-joint. He knew, in the
soul of him, that Chicago was a danger-spot.

He knocked on the door and was admitted by the Dropper--who seemed
alone.

“Back again,” said Fay. “I said I’d be back. Where is Emily?”

“Wot t’hell!”

“Where is the girl?”

A gliding sounded over the matting of the room beyond the screen.
Emily thrust her head through the doorway. Her sherry-colored eyes
were red-rimmed, glazed with tears, sullen. The Dropper had just
finished his morning hate by upbraiding her.

“Wot t’hell’s comin’ off?” rumbled the dive-keeper. “Beat it, cul,
before I wake up. I’m going to wham yuh one.”

Fay swiftly hooked his cane over the edge of an empty bunk, removed
his hat, took off his coat, and rolled up his sleeves.

“I didn’t bring a gat!” he snapped. “I don’t need one. Get into that
room, set the card-table back and pile up the chairs. Get ready, you
fink, for what’s coming to you.”

                *       *       *       *       *

The Dropper found himself in the grip of a situation not exactly to
his liking. He backed from Fay. He crashed over the screen. He
turned, thrust Emily aside, and shelved forward his shoulders in an
aggressive posture. His brows worked up and down. The scar on his
cheek grew livid.

“Hol’ on,” he started to protest.

Fay stepped swiftly forward, whipped over a lightning uppercut, and
jabbed with his left fist toward the brute’s stomach. Both blows had
force enough to land the Dropper against the card-table.

He went down like a pole-axed bullock. He rose in his might and rage.
His bellowing could have been heard a block away. He came at Fay
unskillfully--thrown off balance by the sudden attack.

The clean life of a supercrook stood Fay in good stead. His weight
was less than half that of the Dropper’s. But he more than made up
for this by the swiftness of his blows. He tormented the brute by
jabs, hooks and side-stepping.

The Dropper was no novice at boxing. Once, years before, he had been
Honest Abe’s chief bouncer. He had broken men’s heads and hurled
derelicts from barrooms. He knew the rudiments of wrestling.

Slowly his thick brain came into action. He covered his jaw with a
shelving shoulder. He put down his bulletlike head and started to
bore through the rain of blows. With wild swings he forced Fay
against the poker-table. It went over and rolled to the wall near
where Emily crouched.

The cracksman glided around the Dropper and shadow-tormented him. He
struck straight from the shoulder. He was two-fisted and agile. Each
flash of his eye was marked by a stinging blow. A crescendo of
effort, all to the brute’s purple face, had its effect. The Dropper
started gasping. He lowered his fists. He breathed, waiting. He
grunted as he followed Fay--blindly, grossly. A red gleam showed where
his lids were puffing.

                *       *       *       *       *

Fay felt his own strength waning. He called on all his latent
nerve-force. He became a tiger. He leaped, drove a smashing fist
between the Dropper’s gorilla-like brows, stepped back, dodged a
swing, then repeated the blow. He played for this mark. The fury of
his assault was like an air-hammer on a rivet. It deadened the
brute’s brain. It made him all animal.

A bull’s roar filled the room. Goaded to an open defense, the Dropper
abandoned science. He tried to grasp his tormentor. His huge hands
groped through the air. He stumbled and searched. He fell over a
chair. He rose to his knees. Fay waited, hooked a short, elbow-jab
between the eyes. He followed with his left. His arm snapped in its
sting. He backed, side-stepped, and started around the Dropper,
delivering blows like a cooper finishing a barrel.

A red rage came to the cracksman that was terrible in its ferocity.
He forgot Emily. He saw only the swollen thing before him. He wanted
to kill. He sought for the opening.

Abandoning his straight jabs, he danced in and out with short-arm
swings to the face and neck and eyes. He pounded the ears until they
resembled cauliflowers. He made a pulp of the Dropper’s face.

The end came in less than a second. Beaten into near-insensibility,
tottering and bloated--the Dropper attempted to reach the door that
led to the opium-joint. He remembered a gat he had planted there. He
lowered his shielding left shoulder. His jaw was exposed.

Fay poised on tiptoes, drew back his right fist and sent it home with
the tendons of his legs strained in the effort. His weight, his rage,
his science and clean living were in that blow. It milled the brute,
staggered and brought him crashing, first to his knees, then over on
his back, where he lay with his swollen face turned toward the
ceiling.

Little Emily glided to the door. She waited with her eyes fixed and
shimmering.

Fay breathed deeply. He turned, unrolled his silk sleeves and said:

“Will--you--get my hat and coat and cane, please?”

Little Emily helped him on with his coat. Her hands trembled.

“Now get _your_ things. You’re going away from here.”

She returned within three minutes.

“I’m ready,” she said.

“You saw me knock him out?”

“Yes.”

“Go look at him.”

Emily hurried into the room. She knelt by the Dropper’s head. She
came back to Fay and whispered:

“I’m not afraid of him any more.”

“Why, little Emily?”

“Because you are stronger than he is.”

Fay opened the door that led to the hallway where the gas-flare
showed in the gloom.

“Have you everything?” he asked.

Emily pointed to a pasteboard hatbox. Fay lifted it gallantly.

“Come on,” he said.

“Where are you going to take me?” she asked, humbly.

“I’m going to take you to the house of the good woman on the Hudson.”

“And what are _you_ going to do?”

“I? I’m going to get word to Charley O’Mara that I kept my
promise--and his kid’s all right.”


THE END


[Transcriber’s Note: This story appeared in the February 1920 issue
of Blue Book magazine.]

*** END OF THE PROJECT GUTENBERG EBOOK BEYOND THE WALL ***

Updated editions will replace the previous one--the old editions will
be renamed.

Creating the works from print editions not protected by U.S. copyright
law means that no one owns a United States copyright in these works,
so the Foundation (and you!) can copy and distribute it in the
United States without permission and without paying copyright
royalties. Special rules, set forth in the General Terms of Use part
of this license, apply to copying and distributing Project
Gutenberg-tm electronic works to protect the PROJECT GUTENBERG-tm
concept and trademark. Project Gutenberg is a registered trademark,
and may not be used if you charge for an eBook, except by following
the terms of the trademark license, including paying royalties for use
of the Project Gutenberg trademark. If you do not charge anything for
copies of this eBook, complying with the trademark license is very
easy. You may use this eBook for nearly any purpose such as creation
of derivative works, reports, performances and research. Project
Gutenberg eBooks may be modified and printed and given away--you may
do practically ANYTHING in the United States with eBooks not protected
by U.S. copyright law. Redistribution is subject to the trademark
license, especially commercial redistribution.

START: FULL LICENSE

THE FULL PROJECT GUTENBERG LICENSE
PLEASE READ THIS BEFORE YOU DISTRIBUTE OR USE THIS WORK

To protect the Project Gutenberg-tm mission of promoting the free
distribution of electronic works, by using or distributing this work
(or any other work associated in any way with the phrase "Project
Gutenberg"), you agree to comply with all the terms of the Full
Project Gutenberg-tm License available with this file or online at
www.gutenberg.org/license.

Section 1. General Terms of Use and Redistributing Project
Gutenberg-tm electronic works

1.A. By reading or using any part of this Project Gutenberg-tm
electronic work, you indicate that you have read, understand, agree to
and accept all the terms of this license and intellectual property
(trademark/copyright) agreement. If you do not agree to abide by all
the terms of this agreement, you must cease using and return or
destroy all copies of Project Gutenberg-tm electronic works in your
possession. If you paid a fee for obtaining a copy of or access to a
Project Gutenberg-tm electronic work and you do not agree to be bound
by the terms of this agreement, you may obtain a refund from the
person or entity to whom you paid the fee as set forth in paragraph
1.E.8.

1.B. "Project Gutenberg" is a registered trademark. It may only be
used on or associated in any way with an electronic work by people who
agree to be bound by the terms of this agreement. There are a few
things that you can do with most Project Gutenberg-tm electronic works
even without complying with the full terms of this agreement. See
paragraph 1.C below. There are a lot of things you can do with Project
Gutenberg-tm electronic works if you follow the terms of this
agreement and help preserve free future access to Project Gutenberg-tm
electronic works. See paragraph 1.E below.

1.C. The Project Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation ("the
Foundation" or PGLAF), owns a compilation copyright in the collection
of Project Gutenberg-tm electronic works. Nearly all the individual
works in the collection are in the public domain in the United
States. If an individual work is unprotected by copyright law in the
United States and you are located in the United States, we do not
claim a right to prevent you from copying, distributing, performing,
displaying or creating derivative works based on the work as long as
all references to Project Gutenberg are removed. Of course, we hope
that you will support the Project Gutenberg-tm mission of promoting
free access to electronic works by freely sharing Project Gutenberg-tm
works in compliance with the terms of this agreement for keeping the
Project Gutenberg-tm name associated with the work. You can easily
comply with the terms of this agreement by keeping this work in the
same format with its attached full Project Gutenberg-tm License when
you share it without charge with others.

1.D. The copyright laws of the place where you are located also govern
what you can do with this work. Copyright laws in most countries are
in a constant state of change. If you are outside the United States,
check the laws of your country in addition to the terms of this
agreement before downloading, copying, displaying, performing,
distributing or creating derivative works based on this work or any
other Project Gutenberg-tm work. The Foundation makes no
representations concerning the copyright status of any work in any
country other than the United States.

1.E. Unless you have removed all references to Project Gutenberg:

1.E.1. The following sentence, with active links to, or other
immediate access to, the full Project Gutenberg-tm License must appear
prominently whenever any copy of a Project Gutenberg-tm work (any work
on which the phrase "Project Gutenberg" appears, or with which the
phrase "Project Gutenberg" is associated) is accessed, displayed,
performed, viewed, copied or distributed:

  This eBook is for the use of anyone anywhere in the United States and
  most other parts of the world at no cost and with almost no
  restrictions whatsoever. You may copy it, give it away or re-use it
  under the terms of the Project Gutenberg License included with this
  eBook or online at www.gutenberg.org. If you are not located in the
  United States, you will have to check the laws of the country where
  you are located before using this eBook.

1.E.2. If an individual Project Gutenberg-tm electronic work is
derived from texts not protected by U.S. copyright law (does not
contain a notice indicating that it is posted with permission of the
copyright holder), the work can be copied and distributed to anyone in
the United States without paying any fees or charges. If you are
redistributing or providing access to a work with the phrase "Project
Gutenberg" associated with or appearing on the work, you must comply
either with the requirements of paragraphs 1.E.1 through 1.E.7 or
obtain permission for the use of the work and the Project Gutenberg-tm
trademark as set forth in paragraphs 1.E.8 or 1.E.9.

1.E.3. If an individual Project Gutenberg-tm electronic work is posted
with the permission of the copyright holder, your use and distribution
must comply with both paragraphs 1.E.1 through 1.E.7 and any
additional terms imposed by the copyright holder. Additional terms
will be linked to the Project Gutenberg-tm License for all works
posted with the permission of the copyright holder found at the
beginning of this work.

1.E.4. Do not unlink or detach or remove the full Project Gutenberg-tm
License terms from this work, or any files containing a part of this
work or any other work associated with Project Gutenberg-tm.

1.E.5. Do not copy, display, perform, distribute or redistribute this
electronic work, or any part of this electronic work, without
prominently displaying the sentence set forth in paragraph 1.E.1 with
active links or immediate access to the full terms of the Project
Gutenberg-tm License.

1.E.6. You may convert to and distribute this work in any binary,
compressed, marked up, nonproprietary or proprietary form, including
any word processing or hypertext form. However, if you provide access
to or distribute copies of a Project Gutenberg-tm work in a format
other than "Plain Vanilla ASCII" or other format used in the official
version posted on the official Project Gutenberg-tm website
(www.gutenberg.org), you must, at no additional cost, fee or expense
to the user, provide a copy, a means of exporting a copy, or a means
of obtaining a copy upon request, of the work in its original "Plain
Vanilla ASCII" or other form. Any alternate format must include the
full Project Gutenberg-tm License as specified in paragraph 1.E.1.

1.E.7. Do not charge a fee for access to, viewing, displaying,
performing, copying or distributing any Project Gutenberg-tm works
unless you comply with paragraph 1.E.8 or 1.E.9.

1.E.8. You may charge a reasonable fee for copies of or providing
access to or distributing Project Gutenberg-tm electronic works
provided that:

* You pay a royalty fee of 20% of the gross profits you derive from
  the use of Project Gutenberg-tm works calculated using the method
  you already use to calculate your applicable taxes. The fee is owed
  to the owner of the Project Gutenberg-tm trademark, but he has
  agreed to donate royalties under this paragraph to the Project
  Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation. Royalty payments must be paid
  within 60 days following each date on which you prepare (or are
  legally required to prepare) your periodic tax returns. Royalty
  payments should be clearly marked as such and sent to the Project
  Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation at the address specified in
  Section 4, "Information about donations to the Project Gutenberg
  Literary Archive Foundation."

* You provide a full refund of any money paid by a user who notifies
  you in writing (or by e-mail) within 30 days of receipt that s/he
  does not agree to the terms of the full Project Gutenberg-tm
  License. You must require such a user to return or destroy all
  copies of the works possessed in a physical medium and discontinue
  all use of and all access to other copies of Project Gutenberg-tm
  works.

* You provide, in accordance with paragraph 1.F.3, a full refund of
  any money paid for a work or a replacement copy, if a defect in the
  electronic work is discovered and reported to you within 90 days of
  receipt of the work.

* You comply with all other terms of this agreement for free
  distribution of Project Gutenberg-tm works.

1.E.9. If you wish to charge a fee or distribute a Project
Gutenberg-tm electronic work or group of works on different terms than
are set forth in this agreement, you must obtain permission in writing
from the Project Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation, the manager of
the Project Gutenberg-tm trademark. Contact the Foundation as set
forth in Section 3 below.

1.F.

1.F.1. Project Gutenberg volunteers and employees expend considerable
effort to identify, do copyright research on, transcribe and proofread
works not protected by U.S. copyright law in creating the Project
Gutenberg-tm collection. Despite these efforts, Project Gutenberg-tm
electronic works, and the medium on which they may be stored, may
contain "Defects," such as, but not limited to, incomplete, inaccurate
or corrupt data, transcription errors, a copyright or other
intellectual property infringement, a defective or damaged disk or
other medium, a computer virus, or computer codes that damage or
cannot be read by your equipment.

1.F.2. LIMITED WARRANTY, DISCLAIMER OF DAMAGES - Except for the "Right
of Replacement or Refund" described in paragraph 1.F.3, the Project
Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation, the owner of the Project
Gutenberg-tm trademark, and any other party distributing a Project
Gutenberg-tm electronic work under this agreement, disclaim all
liability to you for damages, costs and expenses, including legal
fees. YOU AGREE THAT YOU HAVE NO REMEDIES FOR NEGLIGENCE, STRICT
LIABILITY, BREACH OF WARRANTY OR BREACH OF CONTRACT EXCEPT THOSE
PROVIDED IN PARAGRAPH 1.F.3. YOU AGREE THAT THE FOUNDATION, THE
TRADEMARK OWNER, AND ANY DISTRIBUTOR UNDER THIS AGREEMENT WILL NOT BE
LIABLE TO YOU FOR ACTUAL, DIRECT, INDIRECT, CONSEQUENTIAL, PUNITIVE OR
INCIDENTAL DAMAGES EVEN IF YOU GIVE NOTICE OF THE POSSIBILITY OF SUCH
DAMAGE.

1.F.3. LIMITED RIGHT OF REPLACEMENT OR REFUND - If you discover a
defect in this electronic work within 90 days of receiving it, you can
receive a refund of the money (if any) you paid for it by sending a
written explanation to the person you received the work from. If you
received the work on a physical medium, you must return the medium
with your written explanation. The person or entity that provided you
with the defective work may elect to provide a replacement copy in
lieu of a refund. If you received the work electronically, the person
or entity providing it to you may choose to give you a second
opportunity to receive the work electronically in lieu of a refund. If
the second copy is also defective, you may demand a refund in writing
without further opportunities to fix the problem.

1.F.4. Except for the limited right of replacement or refund set forth
in paragraph 1.F.3, this work is provided to you 'AS-IS', WITH NO
OTHER WARRANTIES OF ANY KIND, EXPRESS OR IMPLIED, INCLUDING BUT NOT
LIMITED TO WARRANTIES OF MERCHANTABILITY OR FITNESS FOR ANY PURPOSE.

1.F.5. Some states do not allow disclaimers of certain implied
warranties or the exclusion or limitation of certain types of
damages. If any disclaimer or limitation set forth in this agreement
violates the law of the state applicable to this agreement, the
agreement shall be interpreted to make the maximum disclaimer or
limitation permitted by the applicable state law. The invalidity or
unenforceability of any provision of this agreement shall not void the
remaining provisions.

1.F.6. INDEMNITY - You agree to indemnify and hold the Foundation, the
trademark owner, any agent or employee of the Foundation, anyone
providing copies of Project Gutenberg-tm electronic works in
accordance with this agreement, and any volunteers associated with the
production, promotion and distribution of Project Gutenberg-tm
electronic works, harmless from all liability, costs and expenses,
including legal fees, that arise directly or indirectly from any of
the following which you do or cause to occur: (a) distribution of this
or any Project Gutenberg-tm work, (b) alteration, modification, or
additions or deletions to any Project Gutenberg-tm work, and (c) any
Defect you cause.

Section 2. Information about the Mission of Project Gutenberg-tm

Project Gutenberg-tm is synonymous with the free distribution of
electronic works in formats readable by the widest variety of
computers including obsolete, old, middle-aged and new computers. It
exists because of the efforts of hundreds of volunteers and donations
from people in all walks of life.

Volunteers and financial support to provide volunteers with the
assistance they need are critical to reaching Project Gutenberg-tm's
goals and ensuring that the Project Gutenberg-tm collection will
remain freely available for generations to come. In 2001, the Project
Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation was created to provide a secure
and permanent future for Project Gutenberg-tm and future
generations. To learn more about the Project Gutenberg Literary
Archive Foundation and how your efforts and donations can help, see
Sections 3 and 4 and the Foundation information page at
www.gutenberg.org

Section 3. Information about the Project Gutenberg Literary
Archive Foundation

The Project Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation is a non-profit
501(c)(3) educational corporation organized under the laws of the
state of Mississippi and granted tax exempt status by the Internal
Revenue Service. The Foundation's EIN or federal tax identification
number is 64-6221541. Contributions to the Project Gutenberg Literary
Archive Foundation are tax deductible to the full extent permitted by
U.S. federal laws and your state's laws.

The Foundation's business office is located at 809 North 1500 West,
Salt Lake City, UT 84116, (801) 596-1887. Email contact links and up
to date contact information can be found at the Foundation's website
and official page at www.gutenberg.org/contact

Section 4. Information about Donations to the Project Gutenberg
Literary Archive Foundation

Project Gutenberg-tm depends upon and cannot survive without
widespread public support and donations to carry out its mission of
increasing the number of public domain and licensed works that can be
freely distributed in machine-readable form accessible by the widest
array of equipment including outdated equipment. Many small donations
($1 to $5,000) are particularly important to maintaining tax exempt
status with the IRS.

The Foundation is committed to complying with the laws regulating
charities and charitable donations in all 50 states of the United
States. Compliance requirements are not uniform and it takes a
considerable effort, much paperwork and many fees to meet and keep up
with these requirements. We do not solicit donations in locations
where we have not received written confirmation of compliance. To SEND
DONATIONS or determine the status of compliance for any particular
state visit www.gutenberg.org/donate

While we cannot and do not solicit contributions from states where we
have not met the solicitation requirements, we know of no prohibition
against accepting unsolicited donations from donors in such states who
approach us with offers to donate.

International donations are gratefully accepted, but we cannot make
any statements concerning tax treatment of donations received from
outside the United States. U.S. laws alone swamp our small staff.

Please check the Project Gutenberg web pages for current donation
methods and addresses. Donations are accepted in a number of other
ways including checks, online payments and credit card donations. To
donate, please visit: www.gutenberg.org/donate

Section 5. General Information About Project Gutenberg-tm electronic works

Professor Michael S. Hart was the originator of the Project
Gutenberg-tm concept of a library of electronic works that could be
freely shared with anyone. For forty years, he produced and
distributed Project Gutenberg-tm eBooks with only a loose network of
volunteer support.

Project Gutenberg-tm eBooks are often created from several printed
editions, all of which are confirmed as not protected by copyright in
the U.S. unless a copyright notice is included. Thus, we do not
necessarily keep eBooks in compliance with any particular paper
edition.

Most people start at our website which has the main PG search
facility: www.gutenberg.org

This website includes information about Project Gutenberg-tm,
including how to make donations to the Project Gutenberg Literary
Archive Foundation, how to help produce our new eBooks, and how to
subscribe to our email newsletter to hear about new eBooks.
